SpineOMatic v.7.0 License Agreement

Trustees of Boston College (“BC”) is making this Software available for free 
under this agreement as a public service.  BC grants to you a non-exclusive, 
royalty-free license, subject to all the terms and conditions of this agreement, 
to use and copy the SpineOMatic software (the “Software”) solely for 
non-commercial, internal purposes.

BC retains all intellectual property and proprietary rights in and to the 
Software.  You may not modify or remove from the Software any copyright or 
proprietary notice, license agreement, or any disclaimer or documentation that 
accompanies the Software.  You may not reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble 
or otherwise attempt to derive the source code for the Software.  The name 
“SpineOMatic” is proprietary and you may not use any name, trademark, or logo of 
BC without the prior written permission of BC in each case.

You are solely responsible for the selection, management, control and use of the 
Software and the outcomes of such use.  The Software is provided on an “AS IS” 
basis.  BC makes no warranties of any kind, express or implied, with respect to 
the Software, and expressly disclaims all warranties of title, non-infringement, 
merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose.

In no event shall BC or its officers, trustees, employees or agents, be liable 
for any direct, indirect, special, incidental, punitive or consequential damages 
(including without limitation damages resulting from loss of use, loss of data, 
loss of profits or loss of business) arising out of the use or the inability to 
use the Software.

You agree that you are solely responsible for complying with all laws applicable 
to your access and use of this Software, including, without limitation, 
compliance with any applicable export control law.

You hereby release, and agree to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless BC and its 
trustees, officers, employees and agents (“Indemnities”) against any liability, 
damage, loss, or expense (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses) 
incurred by or imposed upon any of the Indemnities in connection with any claims, 
demands or judgments arising out of any theory of liability (including without 
limitation actions in tort, warranty, or strict liability and regardless of 
whether such action has any factual basis) in connection with your use of the 
Software.

In the event that you breach this agreement, BC may terminate the license, 
effective immediately upon notice to you.  You agree that this license shall be 
governed by the law of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, without regard to its 
conflict of laws principles and without regard to the United Nations Convention 
on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods.  The English language version 
of this agreement shall be the official version of this agreement for all 
purposes.  You agree that the exclusive venue and jurisdiction for any dispute 
arising under this agreement will be the courts located in and near Boston, 
Massachusetts.  This agreement contains the entire understanding between BC and 
you.  If any provision of this agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable, 
it is the intent of the parties that the provision shall be deemed modified as 
little as necessary to be enforceable and preserve its intent, and that all 
other provisions of this agreement shall remain fully valid and binding.

