From: License file(s) installed with software 

LICENSE (English - German version below)
-----------------------------------------------
THIS TRANSLATION IS FOR YOUR INFORMATION ONLY!

THE LEGALLY BINDING DOCUMENT IS THE ORIGINAL LICENSE AGREEMENT IN GERMAN

License Agreement on the PDF24 Creator provided by www.pdf24.org
(Version 2.0 - Juni 2015)


1. Objective and scope of the License Agreement

1.1.1 The PDF24 Creator is made available to you free of charge by www.pdf24.org, 
a project of "geek Software GmbH", and may be used for private as well as for 
commercial purposes. The project would appreciate it, if satisfied users put a 
link on the web site www.pdf24.org. geek Software GmbH offers software and 
services relating to PDF.

1.1.2 The user has no right to claim the right to use of the PDF24 Creator or to 
its provision. The software and - as the case may be - any accompanying 
documentation are provided "as is". geek Software GmbH does not guarantee for the 
proper function of the PDF24 Creator or its fitness for a particular purpose and 
does not provide support. In this respect only the resources offered at 
www.pdf24.org are available.

1.1.3 Visitors of the web site www.pdf24.org can generate an individualized 
version of the PDF24 Creator free of charge. The user interface of this PDF24 
Creator contains a picture which is provided by the visitor. The respective 
visitor of www.pdf24.org is solely responsible for the content of the picture 
(see in addition also figure 5).

1.1.4 Also in the future the existing functions of the PDF24 Creator shall remain 
free of charge. However, www.pdf24.org reserves the right to integrate additional 
components to the program which might be subject to fees.

1.1.5 The PDF24 Creator is provided only for the use and distribution in the area 
of the European Union.


1.2. Usage by end user

1.2.1 The PDF24 Creator can be used by the end user starting from the date of its 
installation.

1.2.2 The end user consents that the software contacts the servers of the right 
holder once a day provided an internet connection exists in order to search for a 
newer program version. On this occasion, no personal data of the user or 
specifications of the computer used by him will be transmitted. Merely 
specifications relating to the installed PDF24 Creator will be transmitted, such 
as program version, language version as well as the time of installation. If a 
newer program version is available, the user is given the choice to install it or 
not. 

1.2.3 The free use of the PDF24 Creator is limited to the complete application. 
The separate use of components - with the exception of the included GPL version 
of GhostScript - is not permitted.


1.3. Generation of an individualized version

1.3.1 The picture uploaded by the visitor of the web site www.pdf24.org for the 
purpose of generating an individualized version of the PDF24 Creator is used 
exclusively for this purpose. It is neither distributed or transferred by 
www.pdf24.org nor is it stored. 

1.3.2 The visitor has no right that the picture integrated by him into the PDF24 
Creator is also shown by future program versions on the user interface of the 
PDF24 Creator. It may be deleted during the installation of a new program version 
of the PDF24 Creator on the end users computer.

1.3.3 www.pdf24.org is in particular entitled to remove the picture if the 
picture obviously infringes rights of third parties or injures legal regulations, 
and in case claims are lodged against pdf24.org because of the picture - both in 
court and out of court - and these claims are not obviously arbitrary. The same 
applies if such an official procedure is initiated.

1.3.4 The name and email address provided by the visitor during the generation of 
the individualized version of the PDF24 Creator are saved within the 
individualized version of the PDF24 Creator and are available to the user of this 
individualized version of the PDF24 Creator. Should the picture be deleted in a 
later program version, this data will be deleted.


1.4. Consent in data processing and reception of advertisement

1.4.1 The visitor consents that the email with which the PDF24 Creator is sent to 
him may contain advertising by geek Software GmbH as well as from advertising 
partners and sponsors. The email address of the visitor will not be made 
available to the advertising partners or sponsors or other to third parties. 

1.4.2 The visitor consents that his email address and his name are saved by geek 
Software GmbH and may be used to send information on new services, products and 
supplies from www.pdf24.org and geek Software GmbH as well as advertising from 
advertising partners and sponsors to his email address. Also emails for marketing 
research and public opinion polls are permitted. This consent can be revoked at 
any time with effect for the future by notice to geek Software GmbH.


1.5. Distribution and modification

1.5.1 It is under all circumstances prohibited to change the source code of the 
program. Any manipulation, decompilation and disassembly of the software and the 
provided files as well as changes of the directory structure or other changes of 
the software package will be brought to prosectuion by the right holder and will 
be punished under § 263 of the German Criminal Code. The right to claim damages 
is reserved. 

1.5.2 The original and unchanged GPL version of GhostScript 
(http://www.ghostscript.com) is delivered with this software package. It is 
accessed after the installation when the program starts. GhostScript is provided 
under the GNU General Public License (http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html). 
Additional information to this license is available, e.g., under 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU/GPL and in the subdirectory /gs of the PDF24 
Creator in the file gnu_gpl.txt. In case they are applicaple, provisions of the 
GNU General Public License prevail over the provisions of the License Agreement. 
Insofar, in particular the preceding figure 5.1 is not applicable. 

1.5.3 The program may only be distributed free of charge and only together with 
all accompanying files and in unchanged state on data carriers or through the 
Internet. Publications on CD-ROM / DVD within freeware/ shareware compilations 
and magazines are permitted. It may be necessary to obtain the consent of the 
holder of rights to an integrated picture (cf figure 1.3 as well as figure 6). 

1.5.4 Any distribution of the PDF24 Creator in a way or in a context which might 
cause damage to the reputation of the project www.pdf24.org or to geek Software 
GmbH, its employees, representatives, assistants or partners, is prohibited. This 
applies especially to the distribution of the PDF24 Creator on web sites with 
racist, pornographic, insulting, anti-constitutional, forbidden or illegal 
contents. 

1.5.5 In any case, geek Software GmbH reserves the right to prohibit the 
distribution of the PDF24 Creator on certain web sites or data carriers or the 
distribution by certain persons at any time without giving any reason. All 
copyright notices and product references as well as pictures used, rendered 
and/or shown by the PDF24 Creator may not be deleted. 

 
1.6. Indemnification by the user

1.6.1 The user has to ensure that he has the right to use the uploaded picture by 
integrating it into the PDF24 Creator as well as that he has the right of 
distribution of a picture integrated into the PDF24 Creator and that he does not 
infringe rights of third parties of any kind and/or official or legal regulations 
of any kind. In any case, the use of pictures with racist, pornographic, 
insulting, anti-constitutional, forbidden or illegal content is permitted. 

1.6.2 The user indemnifies geek Software GmbH from all claims of third parties 
because of infringements of their respective rights by the pictures uploaded by 
the user and/or distributed by him with the PDF24 Creator, irrelevant whether the 
claims are justified or not. The same applies in the case of official procedures. 
The indemnification includes, but is not limited to, adequate expenses of 
judicial and extrajudicial legal defense, including court and lawyer fees and 
other procedural costs, claims for compensation and reimbursement of expenses, 
unjust enrichment as well as official punishments, ordinal money etc., safe for 
costs and damages caused by a culpable behaviour of geek Software GmbH. 

1.6.3 In addition, the user will compensate geek Software GmbH all other expenses 
and damages originating from claims by third parties because of infringements of 
their respective rights by the pictures uploaded by the user and/or distributed 
by him with the PDF24 Creator or from such official procedures. However, this 
does not apply if the expenses or damages are caused by a culpable behaviour of 
geek Software GmbH. 

1.6.4 These rights can also be exercised by employees of geek Software GmbH, its 
representatives, assistants or partners in case claims are lodged against them or 
such official procedures are initiated.

1.6.5 If and to the extent geek Software GmbH is aware of the users address, e.g. 
of the email address provided when generating an individualized version of the 
PDF24 Creator, geek software GmbH undertakes to refer claimants to the user and 
to inform the user about the claim. geek software GmbH will not admit any claim 
without having given the opportunity to the user to enter in negotiations with 
the claimant.


1.7. Revocation of rights of use

The right holder has the right to revoke all rights of use of the user in case 
the user is in breach of this License Agreement. The user admits that all used 
product names and registered brands / trade mark are the property of their 
respective owners, no matter whether they are marked as those or not. 


1.8. Liability of the right holder

1.8.1 geek Software GmbH is liable for damages which were caused by the services 
offered free of charge or in the course of their provision as well as damages 
caused by software offered free of charge, irrespective of the legal basis - 
neither of contractual nor of extra-contractual nature  -, only if and to the 
extent geek Software GmbH has acted deliberately or grossly negligent. This does 
not apply in case of injuries of the life, the body or the health. This 
restriction of liability also applies when services are offered for remuneration, 
however, not in case of breach of essential contractual obligations (main 
duties). Liability according to the product liability law remains untouched.

1.8.2 In case of negligent breach of main obligations geek Software GmbH is not 
liable for indirect damages, in particular for loss of profit.

1.8.3 If and to the extent the liability of geek Software GmbH is excluded or 
limited by the preceding regulations, this also applies to the liability of 
employees of geek Software GmbH, its representatives, assistants or partners.


1.9. Final provisions

1.9.1 This License Agreement remains in force, until it is replaced by a newer 
version. geek Software GmbH has the right to make the installation of a new 
program version depend on the users consent with a renewed License Agreement. The 
renewed License Agreement will be sent to visitors that have received an 
individualized version of the PDF24 Creator via email to the email address 
provided by them. If they disagree with the renewed License Agreement, they loose 
the right to distribute the PDF24 Creator.

1.9.2 The legally binding version of this License Agreement is solely the German 
version. Only this German version is decisive for the content of this License 
Agreement and the rights and duties arising from it. Versions in other languages 
are non-binding translations which are merely for information purposes. 

1.9.3 This License Agreement is governed by the laws of the Federal Republic of 
Germany to the exclusion of the Convention on the International Sale of Goods. In 
case the user is a merchant or has his place of general jurisdiction not in the 
Federal Republic of Germany, the place of jurisdiction is Berlin-Schöneberg. In 
any case, the parties can be sued in their respective place of general 
jurisdiction.


2. Terms and Conditions for PDF24-Fax-Service

2.1 General

2.1.1 The Terms and Conditions (hereinafter “TC”) listed below govern the 
contractual relations between Geek Software GmbH, Einstein Palais, 
Friedrichstraße 171, 10117 Berlin, under the framework of the Fax Service offered 
by PDF24 (hereinafter “PDF24”) and the customer (hereinafter “Customer”). PDF24 
provides all services solely under these TC in conjunction with the current 
specification of services and tariffs under https://fax.pdf24.org. Any and all 
other general terms and conditions of Customer shall not be applicable, 
regardless of whether PDF24 does explicitly object to such terms and conditions.


2.2 Scope of Service

2.2.1 PDF24 enables Customer to send fax messages via the internet and - 
depending on the tariff - also to receive such messages. To this purpose, PDF24 
provides Customer with a web-account which may be used to carry out such 
services. PDF24’s services are provided in a basic, free version with limited 
scope of services (2) and as a premium, chargeable version with extended scope of 
services (3).

2.2.2 The basic, free version allows only for the sending of a limited number of 
outbound fax messages to the recipient’s telecommunications network, but not for 
the reception of inbound fax-messages. PDF24 reserves the right further to limit 
the service at any time (e.g. with regard to the number of fax-pages forwarded or 
the amount of contactable destination numbers, etc.).

2.2.3 The premium, chargeable version allows both for the sending and receiving 
of fax messages within the quota defined under the respective tariff (2.5). In 
addition, Customer is optionally assigned a recipient number in a landline 
network of her/his choice (2.4), which she/he may also use as source identifier 
for outbound fax messages.

2.2.4 The scope of services as well as the charges payable are detailed in the 
schedule of services and prices under https://fax.pdf24.org/preise effective at 
the time of conclusion of the contract.


2.3 Registration 

2.3.1 In order to use PDF24’s services, Customer is required to register with the 
web-account which is accessible by password only. Customer assumes responsibility 
for the accuracy and completeness of her/his personal information. Registration 
under an alias is explicitly prohibited.

2.3.2 Customer agrees and undertakes to maintain full confidentiality of her/his 
password and assumes liability for all damages arising from the disclosure or 
making available of said password. For security reasons, the password should be 
changed at regular intervals.


2.4 Telephone number

2.4.1 PDF24 optionally assigns Customer, within the framework of its chargeable 
service, a telephone number for the reception of inbound fax-messages within the 
German landline network - or depending on the scope of services - also within a 
foreign landline network. Said number may also be used for outbound fax-messages.

2.4.2 Under the terms governing the allocation of telephone numbers in the 
Federal Republic of Germany, a landline in a specific local line network may only 
be allocated if the recipient of said number provides proof of her/his residency 
or place of business within this local line network. For this reason, PDF24 is 
obliged to request such proof from Customer.

2.4.3 Subsequent to the allocation of the telephone number, Customer is entitled 
only to use said number for sending and receiving fax-messages via PDF24. Any and 
all extensive use of the number is prohibited, as is the use of the number after 
the expiration of the contractual relationship. In particular, Customer is not 
entitled to the porting of her/his number to a contractual relationship with 
another telephone communications service provider. (Porting, §46 TKG)


2.5 Charges

2.5.1 For the chargeable services of PDF24, a charge under the schedule of prices 
(https://fax.pdf24.org/preise) then effective for the respective tariff is 
incurred.

2.5.2 Tariffs with monthly payment include the reception of inbound fax-messages 
as well as sending a predefined contingent of outbound fax-messages - where 
applicable tiered with regard to the number of pages sent and/or of destination 
numbers groups. Outbound fax-messages to certain predefined groups of destination 
numbers (e.g. telephone communication networks of certain countries or premium 
services such as 0190-numbers) may be excluded or made dependent on an 
extra-charge.

2.5.3 If Customer within a given accounting period accesses services not included 
under her/his current tariff (e.g. exceeding the quota of outbound fax-messages, 
sending of outbound fax-messages to destination numbers not included in the 
tariff), such services may be charged extra in accordance with the schedule of 
prices then effective. PDF24 may make the rendering of such services dependent on 
advance payment.

2.5.4 Accounting periods are monthly, beginning with the calendar day of the 
effective date of the contract. The respective charge is to be remitted a month 
in advance by use of the method of payment specified under the respective 
schedule of services.

2.5.5 At the inception of the accounting period, Customer shall receive a billing 
statement in writing (§126b BGB) - e.g. by transmission to his web account 
(2.2.1) which shall include both the charges for the upcoming accounting period 
as well as the charges for any contingent additional services under (3) accessed 
in the previous accounting period.

2.5.6 The billing statement includes the statutory VAT then effective in the 
Federal Republic of Germany. If Customer provides proof by submitting a valid VAT 
ID-No. of an EU member state that she/he as the beneficiary of services is liable 
to pay the tax, the billing statement is issued exclusive of VAT. In this case, 
Customer is obliged to pay VAT in her/his country of origin.

2.5.7 PDF24 reserves its right to changing the charges. PDF24 may increase 
charges in particular, if it is itself subject to price increases by third 
parties (e.g. land line telecommunications service providers, mobile 
telecommunications service providers) or by other cost factors arising in the 
normal course of business. PDF24 shall inform Customer of such changes in 
writing. If said changes deviate to the disadvantage of Customer from the terms 
previously effective, she/he shall be entitled to make use of her/his 
extraordinary right in this case to terminate the contract within a month of 
receiving the notification of change, otherwise, the changes will be deemed as 
authorized by Customer. PDF24 will inform Customer of the notice period and the 
consequences of failure to observe it in its notification of change.


2.6 Customer Duties and Obligation

2.6.1 Customer undertakes to use PDF24’s services neither for accessing nor for 
distributing content which violates legal regulations of whatever kind. Customer 
is obliged to avoid any impression in commercial and legal transactions that 
content for which she/he is responsible is in any way attributable to PDF24.

2.6.2 Customer recognizes in particular the inadmissibility under German and 
European law of transmitting unsolicited marketing fax-messages without explicit 
prior consent of the recipient. Customer commits explicitly not to use PDF24’s 
services for such fax-messages.

2.6.3 Customer is obliged immediately to inform PDF24 of any change of address or 
payment information.

2.6.4 In the event of an ex-post failure to meet the requirements for the 
allocation of a landline telephone number in a specific local network of Customer 
(2.4.2) or of other services provided by PDF24, Customer must immediately inform 
PDF24 thereof. If Customer, in this context, provides proof of her/his meeting 
the requirements for the allocation of another landline telephone number or of 
other services of PDF24, PDF24 shall notify Customer accordingly within the 
framework of the regulations aforementioned.

2.6.5 Customer acknowledges that, albeit assuming the contractual responsibility 
to employ all reasonable technical measures in order to ensure the correct 
transmission of Customer’s in- and outbound fax-messages, PDF24 cannot undertake 
an unconditional guarantee for the correct transmission in each and every case 
(2.7.1). In order to prevent, respectively mitigate, own damages incurred by a 
contingent incorrect transmission, Customer is, therefore, obliged, in such cases 
in which the financial or legal consequences liable to ensue from an incorrect 
transmission are expected to be other than negligible, to ensure also by means 
other than checking the fax transmission report that recipient has correctly 
received the fax (e.g. by enquiring with the recipient). This applies 
particularly to any and all cases where the transmission by fax is to ensure the 
observation of a legally significant deadline (e.g. period of objection or for 
filing an action, suspension of the period of limitation, etc.) or transactions 
with other than negligible financial consequences are concerned, in which a 
contingent damage exceeds the amount to which PDF24 would be liable for damages 
in the case of culpable breach of its material contractual obligations (2.7.2). 
In the event of Customer acquiring knowledge that an inbound fax addressed to 
her/him has been transmitted incorrectly, she/he is obliged, in the cases 
aforementioned, proactively to contact the sender identified by the source 
identifier in the error message, in order to establish whether, if appropriate, 
it is necessary to transmit the document by another method. To this end, PDF24 
provides Customer - in as far as this is technically possible - with a dependable 
error message listing the time and the source identifier of the failed 
transmission.


2.7 Liability of PDF24

2.7.1 PDF24 commits to taking all reasonable technical measures to ensure the 
correct transmission of Customer’s in- and outbound fax-messages. However, PDF24 
cannot undertake a guarantee that all technical systems involved in the 
transmission process - in particular those outside PDF24s sphere of control - 
will function at all times and without exception.

2.7.2 PDF24 shall be liable for financial damages - irrespective of the cause in 
law - only if PDF24, respectively its employees or representatives, have caused 
the damages with malice aforesought or by gross negligence or if the damages 
result from negligence of material contractual obligations (cardinal obligations).

2.7.3 In the case of slight negligence of cardinal obligations, PDF24’s liability 
shall be limited to damages that are typical and foreseeable under the 
contractual relationship and it shall not exceed the 24-fold amount of the 
average monthly service charge paid by Customer during the six billing periods 
prior to the occurrence of the loss. If the contract has been in existence for 
less than six months, the average of the service charge accrued during all 
billing periods prior to the occurrence of the loss shall be applicable. 
Liability for collateral damages, in particular for lost profit damages, is 
excluded.

2.7.4 The aforesaid under (3) shall not apply in case of violation of life, body, 
or health. In such cases, the statutory provisions shall be applicable. Product 
liability under the German Product Liability Act remains equally unaffected.

2.7.5 Any and all further damage claims are excluded. This shall apply in 
particular for such financial damages which result from the incorrect 
transmission or reception of fax messages, if Customer on her/his part has failed 
to comply with her/his obligation to prevent or mitigate damages (2.6.3).

2.7.6 All damage claims against PDF24 must be made by Customer within 6 months of 
acquiring knowledge of the circumstances on which the claim is based, at the 
latest, however, 5 years after the arising of such circumstances, irrespective of 
the knowledge thereof. This shall not be applicable in the case of violation of 
life, body, health or freedom as well as in case of liability for intentional tort.


2.8 Data Privacy

2.8.1 PDF24 collects stores and processes the data obtained within the framework 
of the contractual relationship in accordance with the pertinent statutory data 
privacy regulations. For details, Customer may refer to 
https://pdf24.org/datenschutz at all times.


2.9 Duration of Contract

2.9.1 The contract shall be concluded for an indefinite period of time. It may be 
terminated by both contracting parties with a notice period of two weeks to the 
end of the billing period (2.5.4), in as far as the applicable tariff is not 
subject to a different notice period. The right to termination without notice 
remains unaffected.

2.9.2 PDF24 reserves its right to termination without notice specifically if 
Customer is in arrears with her/his service charges for two billing periods, or 
Customer culpably breaches the conditions of the contract, specifically if she/he 
infringes on the duties and obligations under 2.6

2.9.3 The termination announcement must be made in written (§ 126 BGB) or text 
form (§ 126b BGB). Non-utilisation of PDF24s services by the Customer shall not 
substitute a termination within the meaning of (1), even if such non-utilisation 
has already prevailed for some time.


2.10 Final Provisions

2.10.1 PDF24 reserves the right to subsequent additions or amendments to these 
Terms and Conditions. PDF24 shall notify Customer of such additions and 
amendments in text form. If Customer does not object to these additions or 
amendments within a month after reception of the notification of addition or 
amendment, the added or amended terms shall become part of Customer’s contract. 
In the event of objection, the original terms shall prevail. PDF24 shall inform 
Customer of the period for objection and the consequences of non-compliance with 
it in its notification.

2.10.2 In the event of PDF24 introducing additional services or tariffs, PDF24 
reserves the right to make such services and tariffs subject to additional Terms 
and Conditions.

2.10.3 The legal relationship between PDF24 and Customer shall be governed 
exclusively by the law of the Federal Republic of Germany. Unless otherwise 
specified, this shall also apply to the definition of daytime, holidays and other 
temporal or spatial factors.

2.10.4 If Customer is a merchant or if her/his place of general jurisdiction is 
not within the Federal Republic of Germany, the competent court of jurisdiction 
shall be Berlin-Schöneberg. Customer may also be brought to action at her/his 
general place of jurisdiction.



geek Software GmbH				
Einstein Palais
Friedrichstraße 171
10117 Berlin
Germany

-----------------------------------------------
License (German)
-----------------------------------------------
Lizenzbedingungen für den PDF24 Creator von www.pdf24.org
(Version 2.0 - Juni 2015)

1.1 Gegenstand der Lizenzvereinbarung

1.1.1 Der PDF24 Creator wird ihnen kostenlos von pdf24.org, einem Projekt der 
geek Software GmbH, zur Verfügung gestellt und darf sowohl für private als auch 
für gewerbliche Zwecke genutzt werden. Das Projekt pdf24.org würde sich freuen, 
wenn zufriedene Nutzer einen Link auf die Website www.pdf24.org setzen würden. 
Die geek Software GmbH bietet Software und Services rund um das Thema PDF an.

1.1.2 Der Nutzer hat keinen Anspruch auf die Nutzung des PDF24 Creators oder 
dessen Zurverfügungstellung. Die Software und eine ggf. zugehörige Dokumentation 
werden so wie sie sind zur Verfügung gestellt. Die geek Software GmbH übernimmt 
keine Gewähr für die ordnungsgemäße Funktion des PDF24 Creators oder die 
Erreichung eines bestimmten Zwecks und leistet keinen Support. Insoweit stehen 
lediglich die unter www.pdf24.org angebotenen Ressourcen zur Verfügung.

1.1.3 pdf24.org ermöglicht es den Besuchern der Website www.pdf24.org kostenlos 
eine individualisierte Version des PDF24 Creators zu erstellen. Die 
Benutzeroberfläche dieses PDF24 Creators enthält ein vom Besucher zur Verfügung 
gestelltes Bild. Für den Inhalt des Bildes ist ausschließlich der jeweilige 
Besucher von www.pdf24.org verantwortlich (siehe dazu auch Ziffer 5).

1.1.4 Die bestehenden Funktionen des PDF24 Creators sollen auch in Zukunft 
kostenfrei bleiben. pdf24.org behält sich jedoch die Integration zusätzlicher 
kostenpflichtiger Programmteile vor.

1.1.5 Der PDF24 Creator ist nur zur Nutzung und Verbreitung im Gebiet der 
Europäischen Union bestimmt.


1.2 Nutzung durch Endanwender

1.2.1 Der PDF24 Creator steht dem Anwender ab Installation zur Verfügung.

1.2.2 Der Anwender erklärt sich damit einverstanden, dass die Software bei 
bestehender Internet-Verbindung einmal täglich Kontakt zu einem Server des 
Rechteinhabers aufnimmt, um nach einer neueren Programmversion zu suchen. Hierbei 
werden keinerlei persönliche Daten des Anwenders oder technische Daten des von 
ihm benutzten Rechners übertragen. Übertragen werden lediglich Angaben zum 
installierten PDF24 Creator, wie Programmversion, Sprachversion sowie der 
Installationszeitpunkt. Steht eine neuere Programmversion zur Verfügung, so hat 
der Anwender die Auswahlmöglichkeit, ob er diese installieren möchte oder nicht.

1.2.3 Der kostenlose Gebrauch beschränkt sich auf die komplette Anwendung. Der 
Gebrauch von einzelnen Teilen daraus - mit Ausnahme der enthaltenen GPL-Version 
von Ghostscript - ist nicht gestattet.


1.3 Erstellung einer individualisierten Version

1.3.1 Das vom Besucher der Website www.pdf24.org zur Erstellung des 
individualisierten PDF24 Creators hochgeladene Bild wird ausschließlich zu diesem 
Zweck verwendet. Es wird von pdf24.org weder weitergegeben noch gespeichert. 

1.3.2 Der Besucher hat keinen Anspruch darauf, dass das von ihm in den PDF24 
Creator integrierte Bild auch bei zukünftigen Programmversionen auf der 
Benutzeroberfläche des PDF24 Creators gezeigt wird. Es darf bei Installation 
einer neuen Programmversion des PDF24 Creators auf dem Rechner eines Anwenders 
entfernt werden.

1.3.3 pdf24.org ist insbesondere zur Entfernung des Bildes berechtigt, wenn durch 
das Bild offensichtlich Rechte Dritter oder gesetzliche Vorschriften verletzt 
werden, sowie wenn gegen pdf24.org darauf gerichtete Ansprüche gerichtlich oder 
außergerichtlich geltend gemacht werden und diese nicht offensichtlich 
unbegründet sind sowie wenn ein entsprechendes behördliches Verfahren eingeleitet 
wird.

1.3.4 Der bei der Erstellung der individualisierten Version des PDF24 Creators 
angegebene Name sowie die angegebene Email-Adresse werden in die 
individualisierte Version des PDF24 Creators aufgenommen und sind dort für den 
Anwender dieser individualisierten Version des PDF24 Creators abrufbar. Sollte in 
einer Programmversion das Bild entfernt werden, so werden auch diese Daten 
gelöscht.


1.4 Einwilligung in Datenverarbeitung und Werbezusendung

1.4.1 Der Besucher erklärt sich damit einverstanden, dass die Email, mit der ihm 
der PDF24 Creator zugesendet wird, Werbung sowohl der geek Software GmbH selbst 
als auch von Werbepartnern und Sponsoren enthalten darf. Eine Weitergabe der 
Email-Adresse des Besuchers an die Werbepartner oder Sponsoren oder sonstige 
Dritte erfolgt nicht. 

1.4.2 Der Besucher erklärt sich damit einverstanden, dass die von ihm angegeben 
Email-Adresse und sein Name von der geek Software GmbH gespeichert wird und diese 
ihm an diese Email-Adresse Informationen zu neuen Diensten, Produkten und 
Angeboten von pdf24.org und der geek Software GmbH sowie Werbung von 
Werbepartnern und Sponsoren zusenden darf. Auch Emails zur Markt- und 
Meinungsforschung sind gestattet. Diese Einwilligung kann jederzeit mit Wirkung 
für die Zukunft gegenüber der geek Software GmbH widerrufen werden.


1.5 Veränderung und Weitergabe

1.5.1 Es ist unter allen Umständen untersagt, den Quellcode der Programmdateien 
zu verändern. Jegliche Manipulation, Dekompilierung und Disassemblierung der 
Software und mitgelieferten Dateien sowie die Veränderung der Verzeichnisstruktur 
oder andere Änderungen des Programmpakets werden vom Rechteinhaber zur Anzeige 
gebracht und nach § 263a StGB geahndet. Die Geltendmachung von Schadensersatz 
wird ausdrücklich vorbehalten. 

1.5.2 Mit dem Programmpaket wird die originale und unveränderte GPL-Version von 
Ghostscript (http://www.ghostscript.com) ausgeliefert, die nach der Installation 
bei Programmstart aufgerufen wird. Diese steht unter der GNU General Public 
License (http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html). Weitere Informationen zu dieser 
Lizenz finden Sie z.B. unter 
http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_General_Public_License und im Unterverzeichnis 
/gs des PDF24 Creators in der Datei gnu_gpl.txt. Soweit die GNU General Public 
License gilt, geht sie diesen Lizenzbedingungen vor. Insbesondere die vorstehende 
Ziffer 1.5.1 gilt insoweit nicht. 

1.5.3 Das Programm darf nur kostenlos und nur zusammen mit allen zugehörigen 
Dateien und in unverändertem Zustand auf Datenträgern oder im Internet 
weitergeben werden. Veröffentlichungen auf CD-ROM/DVD innerhalb von 
Freeware/Shareware-Sammlungen und Zeitschriften sind gestattet. Ggf. ist es 
erforderlich, die Zustimmung des Inhabers von Rechten an einem integrierten Bild 
(vgl. Ziffer 1.1.3 sowie Ziffer 1.6) einzuholen. 

1.5.4 Eine Weiterverbreitung des PDF24 Creators in einer Art und Weise oder in 
einem Zusammenhang, die dem Ansehen des Projekts pdf24.org oder der geek Software 
GmbH, deren Angestellten, Vertretern, Erfüllungsgehilfen oder Partnern schaden 
kann, ist unzulässig. Dies gilt insbesondere bei der Verbreitung des PDF24 
Creators auf Websites mit rassistischen, pornographischen, beleidigenden, 
verfassungsfeindlichen, verbotenen oder rechtswidrigen Inhalten. 

1.5.5 Die geek Software GmbH behält sich in jedem Fall das Recht vor, die 
Weiterverbreitung des PDF24 Creators auf bestimmten Websites oder Datenträgern 
oder die Weiterverbreitung durch bestimmte Personen jederzeit ohne Angabe von 
Gründen zu untersagen. Alle Copyright- und Produkthinweise sowie Bilder, die vom 
PDF24 Creator verwendet, erstellt und/oder gezeigt werden, dürfen nicht entfernt 
werden. 

 
1.6 Freistellung durch den Nutzer

1.6.1 Der Nutzer hat sicherzustellen, dass er zur Nutzung des von ihm 
hochgeladenen Bildes in Form der Integration des Bildes in den PDF24 Creator 
sowie zur Weiterverbreitung eines in den PDF24 Creators integrierten Bildes 
berechtigt ist und damit nicht gegen Rechte Dritter gleich welcher Art und/oder 
behördliche oder gesetzliche Vorschriften gleich welcher Art verstößt. Die 
Verwendung von Bildern mit rassistischem, pornographischem, beleidigendem, 
verfassungsfeindlichem, verbotenem oder rechtswidrigem Inhalt ist in keinem Fall 
gestattet. 

1.6.2 Der Nutzer stellt die geek Software GmbH von allen Ansprüchen Dritter wegen 
Rechtsverletzungen durch die von ihm hochgeladenen Bilder und/oder von ihm mit 
dem PDF24 Creator weiterverbreiteter Bilder - gleich ob begründet oder 
unbegründet - frei. Das gleiche gilt im Fall behördlicher Verfahren. Dieser 
Freistellungsanspruch umfasst insbesondere die angemessenen Kosten der 
gerichtlichen und außergerichtlichen Rechtsverteidigung einschließlich 
anwaltlicher Vertretung, Gerichts- und sonstige Verfahrenskosten, Schadens- und 
Aufwendungsersatzansprüche, bereicherungsrechtliche Ansprüche sowie behördlichen 
Strafen, Ordnungsgelder etc., soweit diese nicht von der geek Software GmbH zu 
vertreten sind. 

1.6.3 Darüber hinaus hat der Nutzer der geek Software GmbH alle weiteren ihr 
entstehenden Kosten und Schäden auf Grund von Dritten geltend gemachten 
Ansprüchen wegen Rechtsverletzungen durch von ihm hochgeladene und/oder mit dem 
PDF24 Creator weiterverbreiteter Bilder oder aus derartigen behördlichen 
Verfahren zu ersetzen. Dies gilt nicht, wenn die geek Software GmbH diese Kosten 
oder Schäden zu vertreten hat. 

1.6.4 Die Ansprüche stehen auch den Angestellten, Vertretern sowie 
Erfüllungsgehilfen der geek Software GmbH zu, wenn gegen diese die genannten 
Ansprüche geltend gemacht oder die genannten behördliche Verfahren eingeleitet 
werden.

1.6.5 Soweit der geek Software GmbH eine Anschrift des Nutzers bekannt ist, etwa 
die bei Anforderung der individualisierten Version des PDF24 Creators angegebene 
Email-Adresse, verpflichtet sie sich, etwaige Anspruchsteller an den Nutzer zu 
verweisen und den Nutzer über die Anspruchstellung zu unterrichten. Sie wird 
keine Ansprüche anerkennen, ohne dem Nutzer die Gelegenheit gegeben zu haben, in 
Verhandlungen mit dem Anspruchsteller zu treten.


1.7 Entzug der Nutzungsrechte

Bei Verstoß gegen diese Lizenzbedingungen ist der Rechteinhaber berechtigt, dem 
Nutzer alle Nutzungsrechte zu entziehen. Alle verwendeten Produktnamen und 
eingetragenen Marken/Warenzeichen werden hiermit als Eigentum ihrer Inhaber 
anerkannt, unabhängig davon, ob sie als solche gekennzeichnet sind oder nicht. 


1.8 Haftung des Rechteinhabers

1.8.1 Die geek Software GmbH haftet für Schäden, die durch die kostenlos 
angebotenen Dienste oder bei deren Erbringung sowie durch kostenlos angebotene 
Software verursacht wurden, gleich aus welchem Rechtsgrund - sowohl vertraglicher 
als auch außervertraglicher Natur – nur, soweit sie vorsätzlich oder grob 
fahrlässig gehandelt hat. Dies gilt nicht bei Verletzungen des Lebens, des 
Körpers oder der Gesundheit. Diese Haftungsbeschränkung gilt auch bei gegen 
Entgelt erbrachten Diensten, jedoch nicht im Falle der Verletzung wesentlicher 
Vertragspflichten (Kardinalspflichten). Die Haftung nach dem 
Produkthaftungsgesetz bleibt unberührt.

1.8.2 Die geek Software GmbH haftet bei einfach fahrlässiger Verletzung von 
Kardinalpflichten nicht für mittelbare Schäden, insbesondere für entgangenen 
Gewinn.

1.8.3 Soweit die Haftung der geek Software GmbH nach den vorstehenden Regelungen 
ausgeschlossen oder begrenzt ist, gilt dies auch für die Haftung der 
Angestellten, Vertreter sowie Erfüllungsgehilfen der geek Software GmbH.


1.9 Schlussbestimmungen

1.9.1 Diese Lizenzbedingungen bleiben gültig, bis sie durch eine neuere Version 
ersetzt werden. Die geek Software GmbH ist berechtigt, die Installation einer 
neuen Programmversion von der Zustimmung des Anwenders zu geänderten 
Lizenzbedingungen abhängig zu machen. Besuchern, die eine individualisierte 
Version des PDF24 Creators per Email erhalten haben, werden die geänderten 
Lizenzbedingungen an die von ihnen angegeben Email-Adresse zugesandt. Sind sie 
mit der Geltung der geänderten Lizenzbedingungen nicht einverstanden, sind sie 
zur Weiterverbreitung des PDF24 Creators nicht mehr berechtigt.

1.9.2 Verbindliche Fassung dieser Lizenzbedingungen ist ausschließlich die 
Fassung in deutscher Sprache. Nur diese Fassung ist für den Inhalt dieser 
Lizenzbedingungen und die Rechte und Pflichten aus ihnen maßgeblich. Fassungen in 
anderen Sprachen sind unverbindliche Übersetzungen, die lediglich 
Informationszwecken dienen. 

1.9.3 Es gilt das Recht der Bundesrepublik Deutschland unter Ausschluss des 
UN-Kaufrechts. Ist der Nutzer Kaufmann oder hat er seinen allgemeinen 
Gerichtsstand nicht in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland, so ist Gerichtsstand 
Berlin-Schöneberg. Die Parteien können jeweils auch an ihrem allgemeinen 
Gerichtsstand verklagt werden.



2 AGB PDF24 Fax Service

2.1 Allgemeines

2.1.1 Diese Allgemeinen Geschäftsbedingungen (AGB) regeln die Vertragsbeziehungen 
zwischen der Geek Software GmbH, Einstein Palais, Friedrichstraße 171, 10117 
Berlin im Rahmen des von PDF24 angebotenen Fax-Service (im Folgenden „PDF24“) und 
dem Auftraggeber (im Folgenden: „Kunden“). PDF24 erbringt sämtliche Leistungen 
ausschließlich zu diesen AGB in Verbindung mit den aktuellen Preis- und 
Leistungsbeschreibungen unter https://fax.pdf24.org. Abweichende Allgemeine 
Geschäftsbedingungen des Nutzers gelten auch dann nicht, wenn PDF24 ihnen nicht 
ausdrücklich widerspricht.

2.2 Leistungsumfang

2.2.1 PDF24 räumt dem Kunden die Möglichkeit ein, über das Internet Fax-Sendungen 
zu versenden und - je nach Tarif - auch zu empfangen. Hierzu stellt es dem Kunden 
einen Web-Account zur Verfügung, über den diese Dienstleistungen abgewickelt 
werden können. Der Service von PDF24 wird als kostenlose Basisversion mit 
eingeschränktem Leistungsumfang (2.2.2) und als kostenpflichtige Version mit 
erweitertem Leistungsumfang (2.2.3) angeboten.

2.2.2 In der kostenlosen Basisversion ist lediglich der Versand einer 
beschränkten Anzahl von Fax-Sendungen in das Telekommunikationsnetz des 
Empfängers möglich, jedoch kein Fax-Empfang. PDF24 ist berechtigt, jederzeit 
weitere Beschränkungen des Dienstes (z.B. in Hinsicht auf Anzahl der 
übermittelten Seiten, die erreichbaren Zielrufnummern o.ä.) einzuführen.

2.2.3 In der kostenpflichtigen Version sind der Empfang sowie der Versand von 
Fax-Sendungen im Rahmen des Kontingents des jeweils gewählten Tarifs (2.5) 
möglich. Darüber hinaus wird dem Kunden auf Wunsch eine Empfängernummer in einem 
von ihm gewählten Festnetz zur Verfügung gestellt (2.4), welche er auch als 
Absenderkennung bei ausgehenden Fax-Sendungen verwenden kann.

2.2.4 Der Leistungsumfang im Einzelnen sowie dass hierfür zu erbringende Entgelt 
ergibt sich aus dem jeweils bei Vertragsschluss geltenden Preis- und 
Leistungsverzeichnis unter https://fax.pdf24.org/preise.


2.3 Registrierung

2.3.1 Für die Nutzung der Services von PDF24 ist eine Registrierung des Nutzers 
für den nur unter Eingabe eines Passwortes zugänglichen Web-Account nötig. Der 
Nutzer ist verantwortlich für die Richtigkeit und die Vollständigkeit der Angaben 
zu seiner Person. Die Registrierung unter Pseudonym ist ausdrücklich untersagt.

2.3.2 Der Kunde verpflichtet sich zur Geheimhaltung seines bei der Registrierung 
gewählten Passwortes und ist für alle Schäden, die aus der Weitergabe oder 
Bekanntgabe seines Passwortes entstehen, verantwortlich. Aus Sicherheitsgründen 
sollte das Passwort regelmäßig geändert werden.


2.4 Rufnummer

2.4.1 PDF 24 stellt dem Kunden im Rahmen des kostenpflichtigen Angebots auf 
Wunsch eine Rufnummer für den Fax-Empfang im deutschen Festnetz - je nach 
Leistungsbeschreibung auch in einem ausländischen Festnetz - zur Verfügung, die 
auch als Absendernummer verwendet werden kann.

2.4.2 Nach den Bestimmungen über die Rufnummernzuteilung in der Bundesrepublik 
Deutschland darf eine Festnetznummer in einem bestimmten Ortsnetz nur dann 
zugeteilt werden, wenn der Zuteilungsempfängern nachweist, in dem entsprechenden 
Ortsnetz seinen Wohnsitz oder seine Arbeitsstätte zu haben. Aus diesem Grund muss 
PDF24 vor der Zuteilung für ein bestimmtes Ortsnetz einen entsprechenden Nachweis 
des Kunden verlangen.

2.4.3 Der Kunde ist nach Zuteilung der Rufnummer ausschließlich berechtigt, diese 
Rufnummer zum Fax-Empfang und -versand über PDF24 zu verwenden. Eine darüber 
hinausgehende Nutzung ist ebenso ausgeschlossen wie eine Nutzung dieser Nummer 
nach Ablauf des Vertragsverhältnisses. Der Kunde hat insbesondere keinen Anspruch 
auf Übernahme dieser Rufnummer in ein Vertragsverhältnis mit einem anderen 
Telekommunikationsdiensteanbieter (Portierung, § 46 TKG).


2.5 Entgelt

2.5.1 Für die kostenpflichtigen Leistungen von PDF24 ist ein Entgelt nach dem 
jeweils geltenden Preisverzeichnis (https://fax.pdf24.org/preise) für den 
gewählten Tarif zu entrichten.

2.5.2 In Tarifen mit monatlicher Zahlungsweise ist der Faxempfang sowie ein 
jeweils dort bestimmtes Kontingent an Faxsendungen - u.U. gestaffelt nach Anzahl 
der gesendeten Seiten und/oder Zielrufnummerngruppen - enthalten. Der Versand an 
bestimmte Zielrufnummerngruppen (z.B. Fernmeldenetze bestimmter Länder oder 
Premiumdienste wie 0190er-Nummern) kann ausgeschlossen oder von einer gesonderten 
Bezahlung abhängig gemacht werden.

2.5.3 Nimmt der Kunde in einem Abrechnungszeitraum Leistungen in Anspruch, die 
nicht von dem geltenden Tarif umfasst sind (z.B. bei Überschreitung des 
Kontingents an Faxsendungen, Übermittlung an von den Tarif nicht umfasste 
Zielnummerngruppen) so können diese Leistungen nach Maßgabe des jeweils geltenden 
Preisverzeichnisses gesondert berechnet werden. PDF24 kann die Erbringung solcher 
Leistungen davon abhängig machen, dass sie vor Inanspruchnahme bezahlt werden.

2.5.4 Abrechnungszeitraum ist jeweils ein Monat, beginnend mit dem Kalendertag 
des Vertragsbeginns. Das jeweilige Entgelt ist jeweils für einen Monat im Voraus 
durch Übermittlung eines in der Leistungsbeschreibung angegeben Zahlungsweges zu 
entrichten.

2.5.5 Bei Beginn des Abrechnungszeitraums wird dem Kunden eine Rechnung in 
Textform (§ 126b BGB) - z.B. durch Übermittlung in seinen Web-Account (2.2.1) - 
übermittelt, die sowohl das Entgelt für den kommenden Abrechnungszeitraum als 
auch eine Abrechnung der eventuell im vorhergehenden Abrechnungszeitraum in 
Anspruch genommenen weitere Leistungen nach Abs. 3 enthält.

2.5.6 Die Rechnung enthält die jeweils in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland geltende 
gesetzliche Umsatzsteuer. Weist der Kunde durch Vorlage einer gültigen USt-IdNr. 
eines Mitgliedsstaats der Europäischen Union nach, dass er als Leistungsempfänger 
Steuerschuldner ist, so enthält die Rechnung keine Umsatzsteuer. In diesem Falle 
ist der Kunde verpflichtet, die Umsatzsteuer in seinem Heimatland abzuführen.

2.5.7 PDF24 behält sich die Änderung des Entgelts vor. Sie kann eine Erhöhung 
insbesondere in dem Fall vornehmen, in dem sie selbst Preiserhöhungen durch 
Dritte (z.B. Festnetzbetreiber, Mobilfunknetzbetreiber) oder durch sonstige im 
gewöhnlichen Betrieb entstandenen Kostenfaktoren ausgesetzt ist. Änderungen teilt 
PDF24 dem Kunden in Textform mit. Weichen diese Änderungen zum Nachteil des 
Kunden von den bisherigen Regelungen ab, ist er berechtigt, innerhalb eines 
Monats nach Zugang der Änderungsmitteilung von dem ihm in diesem Falle 
zustehenden außerordentlichen Kündigungsrecht Gebrauch zu machen, ansonsten gilt 
die Änderung als genehmigt. Auf die Frist und die Folgen ihrer Nichteinhaltung 
weist PDF24 den Kunden in der Mitteilung hin.


2.6 Pflichten und Obliegenheiten des Kunden

2.6.1 Der Kunde verpflichtet sich, Dienstleistungen von PDF24 weder zum Abruf 
noch zur Verbreitung von Inhalten zu verwenden, die gegen gesetzliche 
Bestimmungen - gleich welcher Art - verstoßen. Der Nutzer hat jeglichen Eindruck 
im Rechts- und Geschäftsverkehr zu vermeiden, von ihm zu verantwortende Inhalte 
seien PDF24 zuzurechnen.

2.6.2 Dem Kunden ist insbesondere bekannt, dass nach bundesdeutschem und 
europäischem Recht die Zusendung von Werbe-Faxen ohne ausdrückliche Einwilligung 
des Empfängers unzulässig ist. Er verpflichtet sich ausdrücklich, die Dienste von 
PDF24 in keinem Fall für solche Fax-Sendungen zu verwenden.

2.6.3 Der Kunde hat PDF24 unverzüglich von einer Änderung seiner Adress- und 
Zahlungsdaten zu unterrichten.

2.6.4 Fallen die Voraussetzungen für die Zuteilung einer Festnetznummer in einem 
bestimmten Ortsnetz in seiner Person (2.4.2) oder für sonstige von PDF24 zur 
Verfügung gestellten Dienstleistungen nachträglich weg, so hat der Kunde PDF24 
auch hiervon unverzüglich zu unterrichten. Sofern der in diesem Zusammenhang die 
Voraussetzungen für die Zuteilung einer anderen Festnetznummer oder sonstigen 
Leistung von PDF24 nachweist, teilt PDF24 ihm diese entsprechend den vorgenannten 
Regelungen zu.

2.6.5 Der Kunde nimmt zur Kenntnis, dass PDF24 zwar die vertragliche 
Verpflichtung übernimmt, alle zumutbaren technischen Möglichkeiten zu ergreifen, 
um eine fehlerfreie Übermittlung der von dem Kunden versandten bzw. empfangenden 
Fax-Sendungen zu gewährleisten, jedoch keine uneingeschränkte Gewährleistung 
dafür übernehmen kann, dass die Übermittlung tatsächlich auch in jedem Fall 
fehlerfrei stattgefunden hat (2.7.1). Um eigene Schäden abzuwenden bzw. so gering 
wie möglich zu halten, die durch eine eventuell fehlerhafte Übermittlung 
entstehen könnten, ist der Kunde daher in solchen Fällen, in denen eine 
fehlerhafte Übermittlung geeignet wäre, nicht nur unerhebliche wirtschaftliche 
oder rechtliche Folgen auszulösen, verpflichtet, auch auf andere Art und Weise 
als durch Kontrolle des übermittelten Sendeberichts (z.B. durch Nachfrage bei dem 
Empfänger) sicherzustellen, dass die Sendung dem Empfänger auch fehlerfrei 
erreicht hat. Solche Fälle liegen insbesondere dann vor, wenn a) durch die 
Fax-Übermittlung eine rechtlich bedeutsame Frist (z.B. Einspruchs- oder 
Klagefrist, Hemmung der
Verjährung o.ä.) gewahrt werden soll, oder b) Transaktionen mit nicht nur 
unerheblichen wirtschaftlichen Folgen betroffen sind, in denen ein potenzieller 
Schaden höher ist als der Betrag, bis zu dessen Höhe PDF24 für die schuldhafte 
Verletzung seiner vertragswesentlichen Pflichten haften würde (2.7.2). Erfährt 
der Kunde davon, dass der Empfang einer für ihn bestimmten Fax-Sendung fehlerhaft 
war, so obliegt es ihm in den in Sätzen 2 und 3 genannten Fällen, Kontakt mit dem 
in der Fehlermeldung mit seiner Absenderkennung bezeichneten Absender 
aufzunehmen, um zu prüfen, ob gegebenenfalls die anderweitige Übermittlung des 
Dokuments erforderlich ist. PDF24 stellt dem Kunden hierfür - soweit dies 
technisch möglich ist - eine aussagekräftige Fehlermeldung zur Verfügung, aus der 
sich Zeitpunkt und Absendernummer des fehlgeschlagenen Empfangsversuchs ergeben.


2.7 Haftung von PDF24

2.7.1 PDF24 verpflichtet sich, alle ihm zumutbaren technischen Maßnahmen zu 
ergreifen, um eine fehlerfreie Übermittlung der von dem Kunden versandten bzw. 
empfangenden Fax-Sendungen zu gewährleisten. PDF24 kann jedoch keine Garantie 
dafür übernehmen, dass alle an dem Versand beteiligten technischen Systeme - 
insbesondere die außerhalb seines Einflussbereichs - jederzeit und ausnahmslos 
funktionieren.

2.7.2 PDF24 haftet für Vermögensschäden - gleich aus welchem Rechtsgrund - nur 
dann, wenn PDF24 bzw. dessen Mitarbeiter/Beauftragte die Schäden vorsätzlich oder 
grob fahrlässig verursacht haben oder der Schaden auf der Verletzung wesentlicher 
Vertragspflichten (Kardinalpflichten) beruht.

2.7.3 Bei einfach fahrlässiger Verletzung von Kardinalpflichten beschränkt sich 
die Haftung von PDF24 auf die nach dem Vertragsverhältnis typischen und 
vorhersehbaren Schäden und ist auf den 24-fachen Betrag des durchschnittlich in 
den letzten sechs Abrechnungszeiträumen vor Schadenseintritt vom Kunden 
monatlichen entrichteten Leistungsentgelts begrenzt. Besteht der Vertrag erst 
eine kürzere Zeit, ist das durchschnittliche Monatsentgelt der bis dahin 
angefallenen Abrechnungszeiträume maßgeblich. Die Haftung für mittelbare Schäden, 
insbesondere für entgangenen Gewinn, ist ausgeschlossen.

2.7.4 Absatz 3 gilt nicht bei Verletzungen des Lebens, des Körpers oder der 
Gesundheit. Insoweit gelten die gesetzlichen Regelungen. Auch die Haftung nach 
dem Produkthaftungsgesetz bleibt unberührt.

2.7.5 Alle darüber hinausgehenden Schadenersatzansprüche werden ausgeschlossen. 
Dies gilt insbesondere auch für solche Vermögensschäden, die durch eine 
fehlerhafte Übermittlung oder Empfang von Fax-Sendungen entstanden sind, wenn der 
Kunde seinerseits nicht seiner Obliegenheit zur Schadensvermeidung bzw. 
–minderung (2.6.3) nachgekommen ist.

2.7.5 Sämtliche Schadensersatzansprüche gegen PDF24 sind innerhalb von 6 Monaten 
ab Kenntnis der anspruchsbegründenden Umstände - jedoch spätestens 5 Jahre nach 
ihrer Entstehung ohne Rücksicht auf die Kenntnis - vom Kunden geltend zu machen. 
Dies gilt nicht bei Verletzungen des Lebens, des Körpers, der Gesundheit und der 
Freiheit sowie bei Haftung wegen Vorsatzes.


2.8 Datenschutz

2.8.1 PDF24 erhebt, speichert und verarbeitet im Rahmen des Vertragsverhältnisses 
erlangte Daten entsprechend den gesetzlichen datenschutzrechtlichen Bestimmungen. 
Näheres kann der Kunde jederzeit unter https://fax.pdf24.org/datenschutz abrufen.


2.9 Vertragsdauer

2.9.1 Der Vertrag wird auf unbestimmte Zeit geschlossen. Er kann von beiden 
Vertragsparteien mit einer Frist von zwei Wochen zum Ende des 
Abrechnungszeitraums (2.5.4) gekündigt werden, soweit der abgeschlossene Tarif 
nicht eine andere Kündigungsfrist vorsieht. Das Recht zur fristlosen Kündigung 
bleibt unberührt.

2.9.2 PDF24 ist insbesondere zur Fristlosen Kündigung berechtigt, wenn: (a) der 
Kunde mit der Zahlung der Entgelte für zwei Abrechnungszeiträume in Verzug gerät, 
oder (b) der Nutzer schuldhaft gegen die Vertragsbedingungen, insbesondere gegen 
die in 2.6 genannten Pflichten und Obliegenheiten verstößt.

2.9.3 Die Kündigungserklärung bedarf der Schrift- (§ 126 BGB) oder Textform (126b 
BGB). Die Nichtinanspruchnahme der Dienstleistungen von PDF24 durch den Nutzer 
kann eine Kündigung im Sinne des Abs. 1 auch dann nicht ersetzen, wenn diese 
bereits länger anhält.


2.10 Schlussbestimmungen

2.10.1 PDF24 ist berechtigt, die AGB nachträglich zu ändern oder zu ergänzen. In 
diesem Fall teilt sie dem Kunden die Änderungen in Textform mit. Widerspricht der 
Kunde innerhalb von einem Monat ab Zugang der Mitteilung der Änderung nicht, 
werden die geänderten Bedingungen Vertragsbestandteil. Im Falle des Widerspruchs 
verbleibt es bei der ursprünglichen Regelung. Auf die Frist und die Folgen ihrer 
Nichteinhaltung weist PDF24 den Kunden in der Mitteilung hin.

2.10.2 Soweit PDF24 ergänzende Dienstleistungen oder Tarife einführt, können 
hierfür ergänzende AGB zugrunde gelegt werden.

2.10.3 Für die Rechtsbeziehung zwischen der PDF24 und dem Kunden gilt 
ausschließlich das Recht der Bundesrepublik Deutschland. Dies gilt - soweit 
nichts anderes vereinbart ist - auch für die Bestimmung von Tageszeiten, 
Feiertagen oder sonstigen zeitlichen oder räumlichen Faktoren.

2.10.4 Ist der Kunde Kaufmann oder hat er seinen allgemeinen Gerichtsstand nicht 
in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland, so ist Gerichtsstand Berlin-Schöneberg. Der 
Kunde kann auch an seinem allgemeinen Gerichtsstand verklagt werden.



geek Software GmbH				
Einstein Palais
Friedrichstraße 171
10117 Berlin
Germany

